# CS-360
Mobile Architect & Programming
Micheal White

Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
I developed an inventory app that would add, edit, and delete items to an item database. The app also has a database to store usernames, passwords, and phone numbers to allow users to log in and reset passwords. The users for this app will be employees of a company that trades goods whether a large warehouse or a small business. Both SQLLite databases needed to store the appropriate information and updatable using CRUD functionality.

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The first screen was the login screen for users to enter their username and password to log in. There was a button to create a new user that would take the user to a new screen to enter their information to create an account and log in. The main screen of the item was the grid that listed all the items in the inventory database. At the top of the screen, you would have the title for each category for each item including description, quantity, and unit. On the upper left corner was the pen icon to edit the item and on the upper right corner was the delete button to remove an item. Placing these buttons on opposite sides of the top of the screen makes it easier for the user to find them and not accidentally touch one when you meant to touch the other if they were next to each other. At the bottom of the screen are other useful icons and info but not critical for maintaining in stock: Add item, Delete All, Total items, User name, and SMS notifications. I made sure the Delete All was large enough to see and away from either corner to reduce the likelihood that users would accidentally click it. The SMS button would take the user to another screen to enable or disable alerts for out-of-stock items. The option could be toggled back and forth to give users flexibility in when they receive alerts. If I know ahead of time that we are going to be out of several items due to a sale or supplier issues, I might turn alerts off if I am performing an inventory count to prevent distractions.

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
With coding, I had to consider what I needed the app to do and then plot out how I was going to achieve this. I started with the LoginActiviyt and the UserInfo first. These, for me, were smaller-scale versions of what I would develop in the inventory list. Once these screens were functional, I could build my Item class next which would be the basis for many of the remaining components like AddItem and CustomItem. The most challenging classes were the SQLLite handlers because these had to weave everything together to get the app to function well.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal? Testing is important in that you do not want to spend hours of time coding something you "feel" will work only to find out that none of it works. And you will have to check dozens of errors that may or may not be related. I tested each piece as I developed it. Starting small with the login and create user features. I tried creating users and passwords with characters that were not allowed to ensure they would be rejected and alert the user. As the scope of the project grew wider, I had to test components of the item inventory individually. I would develop the Add Item feature and then test whether I could add an item. I would then build the Edit item function with what I learned from Add Item. This continued until all components were completed.

Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
My biggest challenge was bringing what I wanted from the app in line with what the requirements for the users were for the app. I had grand plans for the app with many features and options. But I had to reduce that scope to develop the core of my inventory app. This experience has given me a new appreciation for the people who develop the apps at my workplace. We will have new features or apps released to use but they are buggy or the functionality is not what is expected/intended. People complain that these apps are worthless and a waste of time. Now, having been on the other side of the development process, I can see how these issues occur. And I understand how good planning and a solid roadmap can alleviate some of these concerns.

In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
My login and create user screens are what I am most proud of as they are closest to what I envisioned them to be. They are straightforward, visually attractive, and work as intended. The icons I used on the inventory screen were large enough to see but did not overcrowd the item grid. This was a design choice I was conscious about having used many iterations of inventory apps over the years.

